# Text Mining from Party Manifestos to Support the Design of Online Voting Advice Applications

This repository presents the results of the research conducted in May 2022 - July 2022.

Voting advice applications (VAA) are online civic tech tools becoming more common, attracting thousands of users. They allow potential voters to compare their own policy positions to political parties running for an election. One of the key design elements of a VAA are the policy statements representing the political space covered by political parties. VAA designers face the challenge of having to come up with policy statements in a short time frame. Even with medium sized corpora of texts such as party manifestos, the formulation and selection of policy statements serving as a stimulus in the VAA is a tedious and time-consuming task. In addition, there is the risk of human selection bias. In this study, a system is proposed to aid VAA designers in policy statement selection and formulation. The system uses the BERT language model with semantic similarity calculation to mine party manifesto sentences that are relevant to already existing VAA statements. For the experiments VAA statements stemming from 2021 elections and party manifestos issued for the previous two Japanese elections were used. To expand the policy space, VAA statements from the 2019 European Parliament elections were added. Results show that the proposed system is able to analyze large amounts of text in a short time, and mines text that provides practical support for designing and improving VAAs.

All the suggestions the system produced are available here.
